Documentation: Run Random Beacon (#1310)
keep-network/keep-core: docs/run-random-beacon.adoc

:toc: macro

= Run Random Beacon

:icons: font
:numbered:
toc::[]

== System Recommendations

- It is paramount that Keep nodes remain available to the Keep network. We encourage a stable and redundant internet connection.
- A connection to a production grade self-hosted or third party Ethereum node deployment.

> - Persistent storage that will survive a VM or container rotation.

Reviewer: Worth noting each instance should have its own ethereum key, no two or more instances with the same key should be running.

Author: Yep, we do that in Deployment section but will look at collapsing that.

- Machines:

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Cloud Provider
|Machine Type

|Google Cloud
|n1-standard-2

|AWS
|m5.large

|Azure
|D2s v3

|Self-hosted
|2 vCPU / 4 GiB RAM / 1 GiB Persistent Storage
|===

== Build from Source

> See the https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/docs/development#building[building] section in our developer docs.

Author: > We could have a separate section where we link ready binaries for different envs.

This doesn't exist yet though.

> With the details provided under the link, I think that building the client from the source is veeeery hard.

Agree, but it's sort of like a placeholder.  If you think it makes sense to remove it all together, I can do that.

> See the https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/docs/development#building[building] section in our developer docs.

Reviewer 2: > With the details provided under the link, I think that building the client from the source is veeeery hard.

Is this true? There are three steps: install protobuf, install protoc-gen-gogoslick, `go run`, right?

> See the https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/docs/development#building[building] section in our developer docs.

Reviewer 3: RE: @sthompson22 
>  Agree, but it's sort of like a placeholder. If you think it makes sense to remove it all together, I can do that.

No, please don't remove it. The link here is perfectly fine. Maybe we will just need to update its' contents if it's not enough for folks.

----
RE: @Shadowfiend 
> > With the details provided under the link, I think that building the client from the source is veeeery hard.
> 
> Is this true? There are four steps: install protobuf, install protoc-gen-gogoslick, `go generate`, `go run`, right?

Haha, I'm not sure what I had in mind 🤷‍♂  I believe I had some issues with installing all the prerequisites on Linux. Or maybe expected to see there some commands that are only waiting to be copy-pasted to the terminal.

# Keep operator Ethereum account.
[ethereum.account]
  Address = "0xAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA8AAAAAAAAA"
  KeyFile = "/Users/someuser/ethereum/data/keystore/UTC--2018-03-11T01-37-33.202765887Z--AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA8AAAAAAAAA"

# Keep contract addresses configuration.
[ethereum.ContractAddresses]
  # Hex-encoded address of KeepRandomBeaconOperator contract
  KeepRandomBeaconOperator = "0xBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB"
  # Hex-encoded address of TokenStaking contract
  TokenStaking = "0xCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC"
  # Hex-encoded address of KeepRandomBeaconService contract. Only needed
  # in cases where the client's utility functions will be used (e.g., the
  # relay subcommand).
  KeepRandomBeaconService = "0xDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD"

# Keep network configuration.
[LibP2P]
  Peers = ["/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/3919/ipfs/njOXcNpVTweO3fmX72OTgDX9lfb1AYiiq4BN6Da1tFy9nT3sRT2h1", "/dns4/some-keep-host.com/tcp/3919/ipfs/njOXcNpVTweO3fmX72OTgDX9lfb1AYiiq4BN6Da1tFy9nT3sRT2h1"]
  Port  = 3920
  # Override the node's default addresses announced in the network
  AnnouncedAddresses = ["/dns4/example.com/tcp/3919", "/ip4/80.70.60.50/tcp/3919"]

> [Storage]

Reviewer: Should we emphasize the importance of backing up the storage? 

Also:
- worth explaining the structure of storage directory, what's in `current` and what's in `archive`
- worth explaining the same key is used to protect ethereum key and storage; rotating storage key is not currently supported

Author: Got it

Author: To clarify @pdyraga , `worth explaining the same key`, what key is this?

> what's in current and what's in archive

Can you give me a one liner?

  DataDir = "/my/secure/location"
```

==== Parameters

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`URL`
|The Ethereum host your keep-client will connect to.  Websocket protocol/port.
|""
|Yes

|`URLRPC`
|The Ethereum host your keep-client will connect to.  RPC protocol/port.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum.account`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`Address`
|The Keep operator Ethereum account address.
|""
|Yes

|`KeyFile`
|The local filesystem path to your Keep operator Ethereum account keyfile.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum.ContractAddresses`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`KeepRandomBeaconOperator`
|Hex-encoded address of the KeepRandomBeaconOperator Contract.
|""
|Yes

|`KeepRandomBeaconService`
|Hex-encoded address of the KeepRandomBeaconService Contract.
|""
|Yes

|`TokenStaking`
|Hex-encoded address of the TokenStaking Contract.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`LibP2P`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`Peers`
|Comma separated list of network peers to boostrap against.
|[""]

> |No

Reviewer: It's not entirely true. Even bootstrap nodes should point to each other. 

Without this parameter, client does not connect with anyone else.

Author: Fair

|`Port`
|The port to run your instance of Keep on.
|3919
|Yes

|`AnnouncedAddresses`
|Multiaddr formatted hostnames or addresses annouced to the Keep Network. More on multiaddr format https://docs.libp2p.io/reference/glossary/#multiaddr[here].
|[""]
|No
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`Storage`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`DataDir`
|Location to store the Keep nodes group membership details.
|""
|Yes
|===

== Deployment

Deployment constraints are as follows:

> - Each beacon client deployment requires a unique operator address.

Reviewer 3: `operator address` -> `operator account`? 
We define it under
```
# Keep operator Ethereum account.
[ethereum.account]
```
in config and have both address and keyfile there.

> - Each beacon client deployment requires a unique IP address.

Reviewer 3: They can run on the same machine under the same IP but in such case ports should be unique.

Author: Oh my -

=== Kubernetes

At Keep we run on GCP + Kube. To accommodate the aforementioned constraints and system
recommendations we use the following pattern for each of our environments:

- Regional Kube cluster.
- 5 beacon clients, each running minimum stake required by the network.
- A LoadBalancer Service for each client.
- A StatefulSet for each client.

You can see our Ropsten Kube configurations https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/infrastructure/kube/keep-test[here]

== Logging

> Below are some of the key things to look out for to make sure you're booted and connected to the

Reviewer 3: Referring to your other comment about logging, our logging is configurable to some extent with the following environment variables:
```
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
IPFS_LOGGING_FMT=nocolor
GOLOG_FILE=/var/log/keep/keep.log
GOLOG_TRACING_FILE=/var/log/keep/trace.json
```

Author: Thanks!

| IPs : /ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmCcfVpHwfBKNFbQuhvGuFXHVLQ65gB4sJm7HyrcZuLttH    |
|       /ip4/10.102.0.112/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmCcfVpHwfBKNFbQuhvGuFXHVLQ65gB4sJm7HyrcZuLttH |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Bonus**: If you want to share your LibP2P address with others you can get it from the startup log.  When sharing remember to substitute the `/ipv4/` address with the public facing IP of your client if you're running on a private machine, or replace the entire `/ipv4/` segment with a DNS entry if you're using a hostname.

=== Peer Connections

```
21:19:47.129 DEBUG keep-net-w: connected to [1] peers:[16Uiu2HAm3eJtyFKAttzJ85NLMromHuRg4yyum3CREMf6CHBBV6KY]
```

== ETH Networks

=== Mainnet

==== Boostrap Peers

==== Contracts

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Token
|

|KeepToken
|''

|TokenStaking
|''

|TokenGrant
|''
|===

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Group
|

|Groups
|''

|GroupSelection
|''
|===

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|RandomBeacon
|

|DKGResultVerification
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconServiceImplV1
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconService
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconOperator
|''

> |===

Reviewer: From operator's perspective there are only two contracts that matter: `KeepRandomBeaconOperator` and `TokenStaking`.

Author: Are you saying we should remove everything but those?

Reviewer 2: Probably yes, though we can wait for another PR.

We also probably want to pull these in via a CSV (see [the asciidoctor docs](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#delimiter-separated-values)) so it's straightforward to generate programmatically.

=== Testnet

Keep uses the Ethereum Ropsten Testnet.

==== Bootstrap Peers

[small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-0.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmCcfVpHwfBKNFbQuhvGuFXHVLQ65gB4sJm7HyrcZuLttH"`*
[small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-1.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAm3eJtyFKAttzJ85NLMromHuRg4yyum3CREMf6CHBBV6KY"`*
[small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-2.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmNNuCp45z5bgB8KiTHv1vHTNAVbBgxxtTFGAndageo9Dp"`*
[small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-3.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAm8KJX32kr3eYUhDuzwTucSfAfspnjnXNf9veVhB12t6Vf"`*
[small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-4.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAkxRTeySEWZfW9C83GPFpQUXvrygmZryCN6DL4piZrbAv4"`*

> ==== Contracts

Reviewer 3: Would be cool to link npm package with contracts some day.

Reviewer 2: If the note here is to have the npm package include contract info, the day is today :muscle:.

If the note is to include the npm package in this doc, I think that's a good idea for sure, particularly since I think we'd use that package's artifacts to generate the CSV used for the contract addresses.

:toc: macro

> = Run Random Beacon

Reviewer 2: This should really be “Running a keep client”, right?

Author: Maybe?  `keep-client` is kind of ambiguous especially when we have a `keep-client` and `keep-ecdsa`.  The client is effectively the beacon, so I called it that.  Happy to change it if that's a weird line of thought.

Reviewer 2: In my mind, the beacon is the collection of clients acting in concert, and if there's a single entity that we can call “the beacon” it's the smart contracts. Maybe “Running the core keep client”? Trying to think of a good term that we don't have to come back and revise if and when we merge keep-ecdsa into it.

:icons: font
:numbered:
toc::[]

== System Considerations

> 

Reviewer 2: Some sort of intro would be good here. Something like “The Keep network expects certain properties of its running nodes. To provide these properties, a client deployment should meet a few criteria.”

- It is paramount that Keep nodes remain available to the Keep network. We encourage a stable and redundant internet connection.
- A connection to a production grade self-hosted or third party Ethereum node deployment.
- Persistent and redundant storage that will survive a VM or container rotation, and disk failure.
- Each random beacon client running on the network requires a unique Ethereum operator account.
- Each random beacon client running on the network requires a unique IP address or a unique
  application port running under the same IP.

> - Machines:

Reviewer 2: Probably “Recommended instances by provider:”?

# Keep operator Ethereum account.
[ethereum.account]
  Address = "0xAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA8AAAAAAAAA"
  KeyFile = "/Users/someuser/ethereum/data/keystore/UTC--2018-03-11T01-37-33.202765887Z--AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA8AAAAAAAAA"

# Keep contract addresses configuration.
[ethereum.ContractAddresses]
  # Hex-encoded address of KeepRandomBeaconOperator contract
  KeepRandomBeaconOperator = "0xBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB"
  # Hex-encoded address of TokenStaking contract
  TokenStaking = "0xCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC"
  # Hex-encoded address of KeepRandomBeaconService contract. Only needed
  # in cases where the client's utility functions will be used (e.g., the
  # relay subcommand).
  KeepRandomBeaconService = "0xDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD"

# Keep network configuration.
[LibP2P]
  Peers = ["/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/3919/ipfs/njOXcNpVTweO3fmX72OTgDX9lfb1AYiiq4BN6Da1tFy9nT3sRT2h1", "/dns4/some-keep-host.com/tcp/3919/ipfs/njOXcNpVTweO3fmX72OTgDX9lfb1AYiiq4BN6Da1tFy9nT3sRT2h1"]
  Port  = 3920
  # Override the node's default addresses announced in the network
  AnnouncedAddresses = ["/dns4/example.com/tcp/3919", "/ip4/80.70.60.50/tcp/3919"]

> # Storage is encrypted

Reviewer 2: Probably worth clarifying what we mean here. Are we saying the storage dir should be encrypted, or that the data written to storage is encrypted?

Author: I'm actually not sure what's happening here, lol.  Or of the logic used for `current` vs `archive`

Author: I asked Piotr for a one-liner somewhere up the PR.

Reviewer 2: I think we can park this in his court via issue after merging, probably.

Short version though I believe:
- The contents of the storage dir are encrypted before they hit disk and decrypted on start.
- `current` is material for open keep/beacon groups, `archive` is material for closed/terminated keep/beacon groups.

Not 100% sure that's true off the top of my head though, so I think we leave it for now.

[Storage]
  DataDir = "/my/secure/location"
```

==== Parameters

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`URL`
|The Ethereum host your keep-client will connect to.  Websocket protocol/port.
|""
|Yes

|`URLRPC`
|The Ethereum host your keep-client will connect to.  RPC protocol/port.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum.account`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`Address`
|The Keep operator Ethereum account address.
|""
|Yes

|`KeyFile`
|The local filesystem path to your Keep operator Ethereum account keyfile.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`ethereum.ContractAddresses`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`KeepRandomBeaconOperator`
|Hex-encoded address of the KeepRandomBeaconOperator Contract.
|""
|Yes

|`KeepRandomBeaconService`
|Hex-encoded address of the KeepRandomBeaconService Contract.
|""
|Yes

|`TokenStaking`
|Hex-encoded address of the TokenStaking Contract.
|""
|Yes
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`LibP2P`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`Peers`
|Comma separated list of network peers to boostrap against.
|[""]
|Yes

|`Port`
|The port to run your instance of Keep on.
|3919
|Yes

|`AnnouncedAddresses`

> |Multiaddr formatted hostnames or addresses annouced to the Keep Network. More on multiaddr format https://docs.libp2p.io/reference/glossary/#multiaddr[here].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Multiaddr formatted hostnames or addresses annouced to the
Keep Network. More on multiaddr format
https://docs.libp2p.io/reference/glossary/#multiaddr[in the libp2p
reference].
```

|[""]
|No
|===

[%header,cols=4*]
|===
|`Storage`
|Description
|Default
|Required

|`DataDir`
|Location to store the Keep nodes group membership details.
|""
|Yes
|===

== Build from Source

> See the https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/docs/development#building[building] section in our developer docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the <<docs/development/index.adoc#building,building>> section in
our developer docs.
```

This will resolve properly in GitHub across branches and on docs.keep.network.

== Docker

=== Get Image

Doesn't exist for the public yet.

=== Run Image

> This is a sample run command to for illustration purposes only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a sample run command for illustration purposes only.
```

```
export KEEP_CLIENT_ETHEREUM_PASSWORD=$(cat .secrets/eth-account-password.txt)
export KEEP_CLIENT_CONFIG_DIR=$(pwd)/config
export KEEP_CLIENT_PERSISTENCE_DIR=$(pwd)/persistence

docker run -dit \

> --volume $KEEP_CLIENT_PERSISTENCE_DIR:/mnt/keep-client/persistence \
> --volume $KEEP_CLIENT_CONFIG_DIR:/mnt/keep-client/config \
> --env KEEP_ETHEREUM_PASSWORD=$KEEP_CLIENT_ETHEREUM_PASSWORD \
> --env LOG_LEVEL=debug \
> -p 3919:3919 \
> keep-client --config /mnt/keep-client/config/keep-client-config.toml start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    --volume $KEEP_CLIENT_PERSISTENCE_DIR:/mnt/keep-client/persistence \
    --volume $KEEP_CLIENT_CONFIG_DIR:/mnt/keep-client/config \
    --env KEEP_ETHEREUM_PASSWORD=$KEEP_CLIENT_ETHEREUM_PASSWORD \
    --env LOG_LEVEL=debug \
    -p 3919:3919 \
    keep-client --config /mnt/keep-client/config/keep-client-config.toml start
```

Indent same-command lines, save a life.

```

== Deployment Considerations

=== Kubernetes

> At Keep we run on GCP + Kube. To accommodate the aforementioned system considerations we use the following pattern for each of our environments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Keep we run on https://cloud.google.com/[GCP] +
https://kubernetes.io[Kubernetes]. To accommodate the aforementioned
system considerations we use the following pattern for each of our
environments:
```

- Regional Kube cluster.
- 5 beacon clients, each running minimum stake required by the network.
- A LoadBalancer Service for each client.
- A StatefulSet for each client.

> You can see our Ropsten Kube configurations https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/infrastructure/kube/keep-test[here]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see our latest Ropsten Kube configurations
https://github.com/keep-network/keep-core/tree/master/infrastructure/kube/keep-test[in
the keep-core repository].
```

== Logging

Below are some of the key things to look out for to make sure you're booted and connected to the
network:

=== Configurable Values

```
LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
IPFS_LOGGING_FMT=nocolor
GOLOG_FILE=/var/log/keep/keep.log

> GOLOG_TRACING_FILE=/var/log/keep/trace.json

Reviewer 2: Probably worth defining these, maybe not in this PR.

|       /ip4/10.102.0.112/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmCcfVpHwfBKNFbQuhvGuFXHVLQ65gB4sJm7HyrcZuLttH |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

**Bonus**: If you want to share your LibP2P address with others you can get it from the startup log.  When sharing remember to substitute the `/ipv4/` address with the public facing IP of your client if you're running on a private machine, or replace the entire `/ipv4/` segment with a DNS entry if you're using a hostname.

=== Peer Connections

```
21:19:47.129 DEBUG keep-net-w: connected to [1] peers:[16Uiu2HAm3eJtyFKAttzJ85NLMromHuRg4yyum3CREMf6CHBBV6KY]
```

== ETH Networks

=== Mainnet

==== Boostrap Peers

==== Contracts

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Token
|

|KeepToken
|''

|TokenStaking
|''

|TokenGrant
|''
|===

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Group
|

|Groups
|''

|GroupSelection
|''
|===

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|RandomBeacon
|

|DKGResultVerification
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconServiceImplV1
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconService
|''

|KeepRandomBeaconOperator
|''
|===

=== Testnet

Keep uses the Ethereum Ropsten Testnet.

==== Bootstrap Peers

> [small]*`"/dns4/bootstrap-0.test.keep.network/tcp/3919/ipfs/16Uiu2HAmCcfVpHwfBKNFbQuhvGuFXHVLQ65gB4sJm7HyrcZuLttH"`*

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this `[small]` is meant to be but it's not clear to me that it's doing something expected <_<

Author: It literally just shrinks the text...it was so I could get each peer on a single line.

Reviewer 2: They are not on single lines ->

<img width="1024" alt="Screen Shot 2020-04-09 at 11 54 18" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8245/78914743-d9eb2b00-7a58-11ea-8d45-5a1985d89c8b.png">

https://docs.keep.network/sthompson22/docs/run-keep/run-random-beacon.html#_bootstrap_peers

Reviewer 2: Might need to do something like:

```
[small]
====
"/dns4/..."
"/dns4/..."
…
====
```

Author: Weird - looks ok in my asciidoctor preview.  Pushing an update.

Reviewer 2: Lol well now they're all bold but it'll do.

Keep uses the Ethereum Ropsten Testnet.

==== Faucet

The KEEP faucet will will issue a 300k KEEP token grant for the provided Ethereum account.  You can
use the faucet from your web browser or via a terminal using curl.

Faucet Endpoint: https://us-central1-keep-test-f3e0.cloudfunctions.net/keep-faucet-ropsten

To use the faucet you need to pass your Ethereum account to the faucet endpoint with the parameter
`?account=<eth-account-address>`.

Curl Example:
```

> curl https://us-central1-keep-test-f3e0.cloudfunctions.net/keep-faucet-ropsten'?account=0x0eC14BC7cCA82c942Cf276F6BbD0413216dDB2bE'

Reviewer 2: The mid-parameter quotes threw me for a loop. Thoughts about wrapping the whole string in a loop?

==== Contracts

> Contract addresses needed to boot the Random Beacon client.

Reviewer 2: This should probably be a colon? <_<

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
|Token
|

|TokenStaking

> |`0xE2Eda1d802e4aB47631500e3e6F30118350C5f1B`

Reviewer 2: I think you deleted the table terminator here (`|===`), which seems to be causing an issue with rendering; either that or you meant to delete the header that follows.
